# Afterword

When Andrew was nine years old he had a terrifying experience while attending a major league baseball game in Cleveland, Ohio. In one moment his consciousness opened up and he did an Akashic reading on the thousands of people attending the game with him and his family. Obviously he had no idea what happened. So began his odyssey and unfoldment. It was the first of many times his consciousness would open up and tell him something about people and places. Being a reasonable young man, he validated a lot of his information with external research, and he began to form an understanding of what was happening.

The ability became more pronounced as he grew. By his late teens he knew he had to figure out what was happening, and so, like all seekers, he went searching for answers. He did not undertake a vast reading of world scriptures or go to India to live on an ashram. Andrew found the grounding he needed in North American native ceremony and wisdom. He began to understand what he was and what his role was in this incarnation. He had all the soul codes on the planet as part of his journey down here. He had the ability to read the Akashic Records. He describes it as a million letter alphabet that formed the language of the universe. His job was to translate it to the twenty-six letter English alphabet and share it with humanity at this very special time, this turning in the world.

In time, and through his own intense journey, Andrew became The Galactic Historian, one of two titles he has given himself, the other being Peacemaker, a title from the lore of the Iroquois Confederacy, a figure who comes into time and incarnation when great darkness plagues the earth, a figure recounted in the oral teachings. The Galactic Historian comes into incarnation to untie the knots in time itself. The Peacemaker comes in the space of sacred neutrality to move us to resolution of karma. When the Peacemaker appeared in North America around a thousand years ago the tribes had descended into generational warfare and a darkness from which they could not pull themselves out.

Like all consciousness teachers Andrew recommends daily practice for consciousness growth. Consistent discipline is the key to unfoldment. The hope and promise in his teachings is as uplifting as anything given to humanity. We are eternal beings who can traverse time and space and go back to the source of creation itself. We are loved by our creator. We have been given free will. We are responsible for every thought, action, and deed.

This book came out of the work of Martina Grubmueller, David Farrow, Laura Massey, and Mary Kilcoyne. They began their acquaintance and collaboration with Andrew shortly after he began his public life in 2013\. Each of them are highly unfolded beings on their own celestial medium journeys. They entered a question and answer journey with Andrew that spanned months. It was all recorded and transcribed. When they were done they had a seventy-two thousand word document. The nature of Andrew's gift is question centered. Excellent questions produce excellent Akashic Record readings. It's a little like good structured query language producing efficient use of raw data in a database. What emerged was a comprehensive story of time, something which had not emerged in any of the situation specific public readings or interviews Andrew had done to that point. He was best known for a twenty-four part, fourteen hour interview recorded at a Mount Shasta event in 2013, which became his introduction to the world.

By divine orchestration Bruce MacDonald, an accomplished writer and co-author of Stardust Ranch, had expressed interest in working with Andrew on a book about the Galactic History. Bruce's own consciousness exploration through various esoteric traditions around the world shaped his perspective and gave him the capacity of tuning into and expanding on the material. The final product of these synchronicities is _The Galactic Historian: The World According to Andrew Bartzis_.
